```
SIP: 3
Title: Remote Notifications and Triggers
Author: Gordon Hall <gordon@storj.io>
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Created: 2016-08-10
```

Abstract
--------

Protocol extension that gives nodes the capability to opt-in to passive generic
notifications from other nodes and services as well as authorize certain types
of notifications and senders to trigger behavior within client applications
implementing this SIP.

Motivation
----------

Applications implementing the Storj protocol are designed for a variety of
use-cases and the resulting relationships between applications on the network
can become far more nuanced than a simple 1-1 transaction. To illustrate this
we cite the introduction of [Storj Bridge](https://github.com/storj/bridge) as
a broker between a "thin client" renter and a farmer.

The introduction of a broker brings with it the need for arbitration measures
in the event that one of the parties acts outside of the terms of the storage
contract. Given that it is difficult to predict how future systems will
implement these measures, we propose a generic notification format to allow
nodes to invent meta-protocols that may trigger application specific behaviors.

### Example: Farmer Information Requests

Organizations (like Storj Labs) may be responsible for collecting information
from farmers due to regulatory compliance and tax purposes when issuing payouts
above a certain amount. To notify a farmer when that information needs to be
provided, the Storj Share client application could opt-in to receive triggers
from Storj Labs to show a prompt when the owed amount exceeds a threshold.

### Example: Third Party Transfer Verification

Contract brokers, like the operator of a Storj Bridge, need to know when a data
transfer between two parties succeeds or fails so that it can appropriately
track the performance and reliability of the farmers it selects in the future.
The method for implementing these proofs and verifications is outside the scope
of this SIP, however it is likely that there will be a number of future
strategies for carrying out this work. To avoid the need for a new strategy to
become accepted into the core protocol, nodes that support the given strategy
can use these custom triggers to request and deliver the information needed to
carry them out.

Specification
-------------
